Outline updates (#200)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/10.diagnostics.md

## 4. Diagnostics

Given the high transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2, the development of reliable assays to detect SARS-CoV-2 infection even in asymptomatic carriers is vitally important.
For instance, the deployment of wide-scale diagnostic testing followed by the isolation of infected people has been a key factor in South Korea's successful strategy for controlling the spread of the virus.
Following the first release of the genetic sequence of the virus by Chinese officials on January 10 2020, the first test was released about 13 days later [@doi:10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000045].
Identifying individuals who have contracted the infection is crucial to slowing down the global pandemic.
The assays available to date use the following approaches to identify the active virus in patient samples.
A range of diagnostic approaches from a methodological standpoint are being or could possibly be developed.

> ### 4.1 Molecular Tests

Author: ```suggestion
### 4.1 Nucleic-Acid Tests
```

Considering that no other sarbecoviruses are currently known to infect humans, a positive test indicates that the patient is infected with SARS-CoV-2.
However, this test is not able to discriminate the genetics of viruses within the sarbecovirus clade.

#### 4.1.c CRISPR test

> Recently, two American companies, Mammoth Biosciences and Sherlock Biosciences, proposed to use CRISPR technology [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2014.05.010] to increase the speed of Coronavirus diagnostic testing [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.20032334].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, two American companies, Mammoth Biosciences and Sherlock Biosciences, proposed to use CRISPR technology [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2014.05.010] to increase the speed of coronavirus diagnostic testing [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.20032334].
```

Reviewer 2: Is this specific to SARS-CoV-2?

Author: Good catch, @cgreene, I missed this when I critiqued this section. Neither technology is mentioned in the first paper cited.
Mammoth seems specific to the virus: "we demonstrated that the CRISPR-Cas12 based detection can distinguish SARS-CoV-2 with no cross-reactivity for related coronavirus strains"
I am a bit out of my depth trying to figure out what's going on with the Sherlock technology. Sherlock Biosciences seems to produce a technology called SHERLOCK that is being [used by the Broad Institute to try to detect SARS-CoV-2](https://www.broadinstitute.org/news/enabling-coronavirus-detection-using-crispr-cas13-open-access-sherlock-research-protocols-and). They are enthusiastic about this application. But [most of the development seems to be coming out of the Broad](https://www.biocentury.com/article/304556/covid-19-could-give-crispr-diagnostics-their-first-proof-of-principle). 
How about:
```suggestion
CRISPR technology has been identified as an approach that could increase the rate of diagnostic testing for COVID-19 [@doi:10.1016/j.cell.2014.05.010].
CRISPR technologies produced by two American companies, Mammoth Biosciences and Sherlock Biosciences, are being used in the development of potential diagnostic tests for SARS-CoV-2 [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.06.20032334; @doi:10.1101/2020.02.26.967026].
```
I will try to recruit someone who knows about CRISPR to review this section.

Furthermore, the assay needs very simple equipment and can be as fast as 30 minutes.
Finally, the result indicator can be as simple as a color change on a strip [@doi:10.1126/science.abb8400].

> #### 4.1.d Limitation of Molecular Tests

Author: ```suggestion
#### 4.1.d Limitations of Nucleic-Acid Tests
```

> Molecular tests can detect only people that are currently infected, while they cannot detect someone who had developed the infection but has had since recovered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Molecular tests can only detect people that are currently infected, while they cannot detect someone who had developed the infection but has had since recovered.
```

Reviewer 2: Does this depend on how we define "molecular" tests? I guess I'm not sure why a serological test wouldn't also be a "molecular" test. Perhaps something about "molecular" relates to testing for a nucleic acid associated with the virus. It might be good to call these "nucleic acid tests" at 4.1.

> Molecular tests can detect only people that are currently infected, while they cannot detect someone who had developed the infection but has had since recovered.

Author: ```suggestion
Tests that identify SARS-CoV-2 using nucleic-acid-based technologies will identify only individuals with current infections and are not appropriate for identifying individuals who have recovered from a previous infection.
```
Sorry @RLordan, I know the "only" sounds a little odd here compared to how we usually speak, but technically this is where it's supposed to go! (I spent my free time for a while in college copy editing for the school newspaper...who saw it being useful in science!)

Similarly, in tests that use CRISPR, false positives can occur due to the specificity of the technique, as the guide RNA can recognise other interspersed sequences on the patient’s genome.

> ### 4.2 Sierological Tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 4.2 Serological Tests
```

Despite diagnostic tests based on the detection of the genetic material can be quite sensitive, they cannot provide information about the real extent of the disease.
In fact, they would not work on a recovered patient who defeated the virus.
In this context, immunity tests are significantly more informative.

> In fact, they can help scientists figuring out why the disease has different course among patients, as well as what strategy might work to manage the spread of the infection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, they can help scientists to understand why the disease has a different course among patients, as well as what strategy might work to manage the spread of the infection.
```

Reviewer: In fact is repeated two lines above. 

I said "to understand", alternatively I would go with "to figure out"

> Furthermore, sierological tests hold significant interest at present because they can be leveraged to advance economic recovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, serological tests hold significant interest at present because they can be leveraged to advance economic recovery.
```

For instance, people that have developed antibodies can return to work prior to the others, helping to develop the herd immunity which will prevent further diffusion of the virus.

#### 4.2.a Current Approaches

> Several countries are now focused on implementing antibody tests, and in the United States, the FDA recently approved a sierological test by Cellex for use under emergency conditions [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Several countries are now focused on implementing antibody tests, and in the United States, the FDA recently approved a serological test by Cellex for use under emergency conditions [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].
```

In a specimen that contains antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 antigen, the antibodies will bind to the strip and be captured by the IgM and/or IgG line(s), resulting in a change of color [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].
With this particular assay results can be read within 15-20 minutes [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].
Other research groups, such as the Krammer lab of the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai proposed an ELISA test that detects IgG and IgM that react against the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the spike proteins (S) of the virus [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.17.20037713].
The authors are now working to get the assay into clinical use [@url:https://www.livescience.com/coronavirus-tests-available.html].

> #### 4.2.b Limitations of Sierological Tests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### 4.2.b Limitations of Serological Tests
```
